<p><p><H3>Advanced Geospatial Feature Creation</H3></p><p><strong>Description:</strong> Extensive cleaning and transformation of tabular data, in order to create geospatial features. Once processed, the results are clean GPS values as "Point" objects in decimal degrees format and names of all subway and suburban train stations within Hamburg, Germany.<br><strong>Tags:</strong> ['data-cleaning', 'data-transformation', 'geospatial-feature-creation', 'regular-expression', 'shapely', 'tabular-data']<br><strong>Category:</strong> <em>data-preprocessing</em> | <strong>Word Count:</strong> 3777 | <strong><a href="https://deep-learning-mastery.com/projects/advanced-geospatial-feature-creation/">Full Article</a></strong></p><br><br><br></p>
<p><p><H3>Automation Using A Test Harness For Deep Learning: Part 1</H3></p><p><strong>Description:</strong> How to create and use a custom test harness that automates many steps of the deep learning testing process. It lowers GPU idle time, lets one build more models, test more parameter combinations in less time. The fastai library for deep learning is used throughout this article.<br><strong>Tags:</strong> ['binary-classification', 'deep-learning', 'fastai', 'hyperparameter-optimization', 'learning-rate', 'loss-function', 'stochastic-gradient-descent']<br><strong>Category:</strong> <em>deep-learning</em> | <strong>Word Count:</strong> 2703 | <strong><a href="https://deep-learning-mastery.com/projects/automation-using-a-test-harness-br-for-deep-learning-br-part-1/">Full Article</a></strong></p><br><br><br></p>
<p><p><H3>Automation Using A Test Harness For Deep Learning: Part 2</H3></p><p><strong>Description:</strong> This is Part 2 in the series, where we explore how the fastai deep learning library can be used to conduct structured empirical experiments on a novel and small dataset. The dataset consists of 850 images and an almost uniform distribution for the target labels. There are two labels in total, "male" and "female" that are assigned the gender of the model depicted in any of the images in the dataset.<br><strong>Tags:</strong> ['binary-classification', 'deep-learning', 'fastai', 'hyperparameter-optimization','image-data']<br><strong>Category:</strong> <em>deep-learning</em> | <strong>Word Count:</strong> 3068 | <strong><a href="https://deep-learning-mastery.com/projects/automation-using-a-test-harness-br-for-deep-learning-br-part-2/">Full Article</a></strong></p><br><br><br></p>
<p><p><H3>Cleaning a web scraped 47 Column Pandas DataFrame Part 1</H3></p><p><strong>Description:</strong> Data Preparation Series: Exploring Tabular Data With pandas: An Overview Of Available Tools In The pandas Library.<br><strong>Tags:</strong> ['data-exploration', 'first-steps', 'introduction', 'pandas', 'tabular-data']<br><strong>Category:</strong> <em>data-preprocessing</em> | <strong>Word Count:</strong> 3508 | <strong><a href="https://deep-learning-mastery.com/projects/cleaning-a-web-scraped-47-column-br-pandas-dataframe-br-part-1/">Full Article</a></strong></p><br><br><br></p>
<p><p><H3>Cleaning a web scraped 47 Column Pandas DataFrame Part 2</H3></p><p><strong>Description:</strong> More efficient string data cleaning by using the pyjanitor module and method chaining.<br><strong>Tags:</strong> ['data-cleaning', 'pandas', 'regular-expressions', 'string-manipulation', 'tabular-data']<br><strong>Category:</strong> <em>data-preprocessing</em> | <strong>Word Count:</strong> 3263 | <strong><a href="https://deep-learning-mastery.com/projects/cleaning-a-web-scraped-47-column-br-pandas-dataframe-br-part-2/">Full Article</a></strong></p><br><br><br></p>
<p><p><H3>Cleaning a web scraped 47 Column Pandas DataFrame Part 3</H3></p><p><strong>Description:</strong> Extensive cleaning and validation and creation of a valid GPS column from the records, by joining the longitude and latitude columns together using geometry object Point.<br><strong>Tags:</strong> ['data-validation', 'dtype-timedelta64','geospatial-feature-engineering', 'pandas', 'tabular-data']<br><strong>Category:</strong> <em>data-preprocessing</em> | <strong>Word Count:</strong> 2403 | <strong><a href="https://deep-learning-mastery.com/projects/cleaning-a-web-scraped-47-column-br-pandas-dataframe-br-part-3/">Full Article</a></strong></p><br><br><br></p>
<p><p><H3>Cleaning a web scraped 47 Column Pandas DataFrame Part 4</H3></p><p><strong>Description:</strong> Extensive data cleaning and validation using regular expressions. Showcase of how batch processing several columns of tabular data using pandas, pyjanitor and the re library can look like.<br><strong>Tags:</strong> ['batch-processing', 'data-validation', 'pandas', 'regular-expressions', 'tabular-data']<br><strong>Category:</strong> <em>data-preprocessing</em> | <strong>Word Count:</strong> 4257 | <strong><a href="https://deep-learning-mastery.com/projects/cleaning-a-web-scraped-47-column-br-pandas-dataframe-br-part-4/">Full Article</a></strong></p><br><br><br></p>
<p><p><H3>Datacamp Concrete Regression Challenge</H3></p><p><strong>Description:</strong> This is the notebook I created to solve the datacamp concrete challenge within an hour. There are explanations for most of the code in this article and we look deeper into the workings of the Lasso regression model.<br><strong>Tags:</strong> ['cross-validation', 'lasso-regression', 'math', 'multivariate-regression', 'regression-analysis']<br><strong>Category:</strong> <em>tabular-data</em> | <strong>Word Count:</strong> 1162 | <strong><a href="https://deep-learning-mastery.com/projects/datacamp-concrete-regression-challenge/">Full Article</a></strong></p><br><br><br></p>
<p><p><H3>Deep Dive Tabular Data Pt. 1</H3></p><p><strong>Description:</strong> Preprocessing Data: Visualizing missing values on an 80 feature dataset. Strategies for filling missing values and using categorical embeddings.<br><strong>Tags:</strong> ['categorical-embeddings', 'data-preprocessing', 'fastai', 'fill-strategies', 'tabular-data']<br><strong>Category:</strong> <em>tabular-data</em> | <strong>Word Count:</strong> 5389 | <strong><a href="https://deep-learning-mastery.com/projects/deep-dive-tabular-data-pt-1/">Full Article</a></strong></p><br><br><br></p>
<p><p><H3>Deep Dive Tabular Data Pt. 2</H3></p><p><strong>Description:</strong> Feature selection using model DecisionTreeRegressor from sklearn and the feature<em>importances</em> method which is tested for deviations in its score.<br><strong>Tags:</strong> ['decision-tree-regressor', 'feature-importance', 'feature-selection', 'sklearn', 'tabular-data']<br><strong>Category:</strong> <em>tabular-data</em> | <strong>Word Count:</strong> 1895 | <strong><a href="https://deep-learning-mastery.com/projects/deep-dive-tabular-data-pt-2/">Full Article</a></strong></p><br><br><br></p>
<p><p><H3>Deep Dive Tabular Data Pt. 3</H3></p><p><strong>Description:</strong> RandomForestRegressor using feature<em>importances</em> and out-of-bag error to asses model performance.<br><strong>Tags:</strong> ['feature-importance', 'feature-selection', 'out-of-bag-error', 'random-forest', 'tabular-data']<br><strong>Category:</strong> <em>tabular-data</em> | <strong>Word Count:</strong> 1407 | <strong><a href="https://deep-learning-mastery.com/projects/deep-dive-tabular-data-pt-3/">Full Article</a></strong></p><br><br><br></p>
<p><p><H3>Deep Dive Tabular Data Pt. 4</H3></p><p><strong>Description:</strong> Interpretation Using Advanced Statistical Visualizations. Dendrogram, Spearman rank correlation, partial dependence plot, impact of independent variables for sample on predictions.<br><strong>Tags:</strong> ['dendrogram', 'partial-dependence', 'spearman-rank-correlation', 'tabular-data', 'treeinterpreter']<br><strong>Category:</strong> <em>tabular-data</em> | <strong>Word Count:</strong> 1663 | <strong><a href="https://deep-learning-mastery.com/projects/deep-dive-tabular-data-pt-4/">Full Article</a></strong></p><br><br><br></p>
<p><p><H3>Deep Dive Tabular Data Pt. 5</H3></p><p><strong>Description:</strong> Out-of-domain problem: What it is, why it is important, how to spot it and how to deal with it.<br><strong>Tags:</strong> ['feature-importance', 'model-accuracy', 'out-of-domain-problem', 'random-forest', 'tabular-data']<br><strong>Category:</strong> <em>tabular-data</em> | <strong>Word Count:</strong> 1086 | <strong><a href="https://deep-learning-mastery.com/projects/deep-dive-tabular-data-pt-5/">Full Article</a></strong></p><br><br><br></p>
<p><p><H3>Deep Dive Tabular Data Pt. 6</H3></p><p><strong>Description:</strong> Kaggle Submission 1: Training RandomForestRegressor, fastai deep learning model using hyperparameter optimization techniques. Preprocessing of Kaggle test data.<br><strong>Tags:</strong> ['data-preprocessing', 'fastai', 'hyperparameter-optimization', 'random-forest', 'tabular-data']<br><strong>Category:</strong> <em>tabular-data</em> | <strong>Word Count:</strong> 2707 | <strong><a href="https://deep-learning-mastery.com/projects/deep-dive-tabular-data-pt-6/">Full Article</a></strong></p><br><br><br></p>
<p><p><H3>Deep Dive Tabular Data Pt. 7</H3></p><p><strong>Description:</strong> Kaggle Submission 2: tabular_learner deep learning estimator optimized using manual hyperparameter optimization. XGBRegressor using RandomizedSearchCV and sampling from continuous parameter distributions.<br><strong>Tags:</strong> ['hyperparameter-optimization', 'random-search', 'tabular-data', 'tabular_learner', 'xgboost-regressor']<br><strong>Category:</strong> <em>tabular-data</em> | <strong>Word Count:</strong> 3515 | <strong><a href="https://deep-learning-mastery.com/projects/deep-dive-tabular-data-pt-7/">Full Article</a></strong></p><br><br><br></p>
<p><p><H3>Hearthstone: Euro To In-Game Currency Conversion</H3></p><p><strong>Description:</strong> With an introduction that explains the fundamentals of the card game Hearthstone, this article simulates the dust value from opening one pack of cards. This makes it possible to quantify what a Hearthstone deck is worth in Euro.<br><strong>Tags:</strong> ['hearthstone', 'money-to-in-game-currency', 'research', 'simulation', 'statistics']<br><strong>Category:</strong> <em>statistics</em> | <strong>Word Count:</strong> 4007 | <strong><a href="https://deep-learning-mastery.com/projects/hearthstone-euro-to-in-game-currency-conversion/">Full Article</a></strong></p><br><br><br></p>
<p><p><H3>Multicollinearity: What It Is &amp; Measures To Spot It</H3></p><p><strong>Description:</strong> Covariance and the Pearson correlation coefficient: How to spot multicollinearity between random variables.<br><strong>Tags:</strong> ['covariance','multicollinearity','pearson-correlation-coefficient','random-variable','statistics']<br><strong>Category:</strong> <em>statistics</em> | <strong>Word Count:</strong> 815 | <strong><a href="https://deep-learning-mastery.com/projects/multicolinearity-what-it-is-measures-to-spot-it/">Full Article</a></strong></p><br><br><br></p>
<p><p><H3>MySQL Queries Using An AWS Redshift MySQL Database</H3></p><p><strong>Description:</strong> This article shows how one can use Python to import CSV files using Pandas into a MySQL database hosted on AWS using Redshift and how to formulate basic MySQL queries to get the data of interest.<br><strong>Tags:</strong> ['mysql', 'AWS', 'pandas', 'tabular-data', 'query']<br><strong>Category:</strong> <em>tabular-data</em> | <strong>Word Count:</strong> 1982 | <strong><a href="https://deep-learning-mastery.com/projects/mysql-queries-using-an-aws-redshift-mysql-database/">Full Article</a></strong></p><br><br><br></p>
<p><p><H3>The Math Behind "Stepping The Weights"</H3></p><p><strong>Description:</strong> In this article we highlight a key concept in the Stochastic Gradient Descent and explore the basics that this optimization algorithm is derived of.<br><strong>Tags:</strong> ['deep-learning', 'math', 'ordinary-least-squares', 'partial-derivate', 'stochastic-gradient-descent']<br><strong>Category:</strong> <em>deep-learning</em> | <strong>Word Count:</strong> 1756 | <strong><a href="https://deep-learning-mastery.com/projects/the-math-behind-br-stepping-the-weights/">Full Article</a></strong></p><br><br><br></p>
<p><p><H3>The Tasks In Every Machine Learning Project: Tabular Data</H3></p><p><strong>Description:</strong> The six tasks in every machine learning project with structured data.<br><strong>Tags:</strong> ['predictive-modeling', 'hyperparameter-optimization', 'reproducable-code', 'tabular-data', 'feature-engineering']<br><strong>Category:</strong> <em>tabular-data</em> | <strong>Word Count:</strong> 583 | <strong><a href="https://deep-learning-mastery.com/projects/the-tasks-in-every-machine-learning-project-br-tabular-data/">Full Article</a></strong></p><br><br><br></p>
